e
w
eapons of war —even the most modern equipment. North Korea has enhanced nature by diggin g
u
nderground in order to protect itself from aerial attack while hiding its activities from overhead intelligence
collection efforts. All military branches and civilian agencies are involved in keeping their activities shielded
from outside prying eyes. The North Koreans use their underground construction not only for defensive
purposes, but as places to launch offensive operations from as well.

Central Intelligence Agency located a bunker designed specifically for use by the contemporary North
Korean leader, Kim Il  Sung, a short distance outside of Pyongyang. Underground construction has slowed
down in the last decade due to a materi el shortage, the lack of heavy equipment, and frequent electrical
blackouts throughout the country. Nevertheless, work on underground f acilities continues with much of it
formerly done by machinery now being completed using manual labor.
7-84. The North Korean Government recruits its citizens, usually in their late teens, into distinctive military
units constructing or operating specialized und erground facilities. The soldiers sign a confidentiality
agreement and the North Korean Government expects the individuals to work in the same facility until the
y
t
urn 60 years old. The KPAGF expect the male soldiers to find wives from among their coworker s, but are
f
orbidden to marry until they have served 10 years in the military. The KPAGF, however, allow females to
marry after they reach the age of 24. The North Korean Government does not usually allow the workers
outside of their facility, even to see their families, and defectors call the service in these underground facilities
more like a prison sentence than an occupation.
7-85. Since the western corridor has been the traditional route used by armies moving north -south in Korea
for centuries, the KPAGF ha ve concentrated much of their subterranean construction in this western region
of the country. The North Korean terrain varies widely, with the most arduous terrain generally in the eastern
part of the country and less difficult terrain in the west. The eastern mountains are rugged and normally best
suited for light infantry operations. The central region, containing part of the Taebak Mountains, is rugged,
but there are some routes suitable for light armored vehicles. The western part of North Korea is least
forbidding in terms of terrain. Both the North Korean capital city of Pyongyang and the South Korean capital
city of Seoul lie on the western side of the peninsula. The region’s geological formations, with substantial
granite and other metamorphic hard rock formations, provide natural protection against damage from th
e
w
eapons of war —even the most modern equipment. North Korea has enhanced nature by diggin g
u
nderground in order to protect itself from aerial attack while hiding its activities from overhead intelligence

instigate a regime change and the removal of Kim Jong Un. In June 2018, North Korean and  U.S. leaders
met in Singapore and agreed to an eventual denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. No timeline was set to
achieve this goal. A second, unsuccessful summit took place in February 2019.
1-24. While North Korea maintains large amounts of military equipment, much of it is outdated making it
quantitatively superior to most armies but qualitatively inferior. Due to the high cost of modern military
equipment and the lack of funds for and access to the same from years of economic sanctions and poor
economic policies, the country retains obsolete hardware, as evidenced by the presence of the T -34/85—
a
W
orld War II-era tank—in some of its lower-priority armor units. The age and variety of equipment from the
former Soviet Union, Russia, and China, and its own internally produced equipment generate major logistical
issues for the KPA to effectively keep the assortment of weapons systems fully functional. The various types
of ammunition required by weapon systems that date from the 1940s also puts additional s train on the
military’s logistics.

co
mbat with superior forces and focus on alternative methods. These activities may not be linked to maneuver
or ground objectives, but may instead be intended to inflict mass casualties or destroy critical or essential
systems, thus reducing U.S. resolve or ability to continue the fight.
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION 
1-45. North Korea possesses nuclear and chemical weapons, and it is highly likely that the country has also
done research on biological weapons. North Korea sought nuclear weapons because its leaders thought th e
t
hreat of a nuclear attack would prevent other countries from contemplating a regime change.  Estimates for
North Korean nuclear weapons range from 20–60 bombs, with the capability to produce 6 new devices each
year. The Kim family saw that Muammar Gadhaf i gave up his nuclear weapons in 2003 but, without them,
external powers intervened in Libya when the domestic revolts began in 2011. The Kim family does not want
something similar to happen in North Korea.
1-46. North Korea has a longstanding chemical weapons program with the capability to produce nerve,
blister, blood, and choking agents, and likely possesses a large chemical weapons stockpile. It is estimated
that the country possesses 2,500– 5,000 tons of chemical weapons of approximately 20 different types,
making it the third-largest possessor of chemical agents in the world. This includes the highly toxic sarin and
VX chemical agents. It is highly likely that the KPA would use chemical artillery shells. North Korea is no t
a s
ignature to the Chemical Weapons Convention, which is an arms -control treaty that outlaws the
production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons and their precursors.
1-47. North Korea possibly has weaponized anthrax or smallpox that could be mounted on missiles for use
against South Korean, U.S., or Japanese targets in the region. One of the most recent defectors, who was a
KPAGF soldier, had been vaccinated against anthrax.
NORTH KOREAN MILITARY PRINCIPLES 
1-48. North Korea arrived at its current military principles through a disciplined process that incorporated
thorough research of its previous military ideology, its steadfast attitude to complete its national objective,

*************************************************

alternate way to operate on the margins of U.S. technology is to maneuver during periods of reduce d
ex
posure, based on detailed study of U.S. capabilities and patterns.
Protect Key Capabilities 
1-137. North Korean forces could selectively forego massed formations, patterned echelons, and linear
operations that would present easy targets. Military forces may hide and disperse in areas of sanctuary that
limit the ability to apply the full range of U.S. technological capabilities. The country will retain the ability
to rapidly mass forces and fires from dispersed locations for decisive combat at the time and place of its own
determination. North Korea will use the physical environment and natural conditions to neutralize or offset
the techno logical advantages of modern reconnaissance, surveillance, and intelligence operations. The
country will employ its large array of reconnaissance, surveillance, intelligence, and target acquisition
systems. Deceptive misinformation to large numbers of sensors can overwhelm a foe’s ability to receive,
process, and analyze raw intelligence data and provide timely and accurate intelligence analysis.

Chapter 1 
1-14 ATP 7-100.2 24 July 2020 
NORTH KOREAN PRINCIPLES OF WAR 
1-58. Based on its military strategy, the KPA created several principles of war that guide its operational and
tactical doctrine, ranging from a two-front war to rear area protection.
Two-front War 
1-59. KPA doctrine calls for a two -front war, but not in the traditional sense of the term such as in World
War I or World War II with one force fighting in two different directions. The first front would consist of a
massive conventional assault across the DMZ, using substantial firepower and chemical attacks on selected
forward-position targets to isolate Seoul before moving farther south. Additionally, ballistic missile strikes—
including missiles with c hemical warheads —could hit South Korean and U.S. air bases, ports, and C2 ,
co
mmunications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets throughout South Kor ea
a
nd in Japan. There is also a possibility that North Korea may attempt to use  offensive biological weapons
in its attacks or launch intercontinental ballistic missiles aimed at U.S. targets in Hawaii, Alaska, or even the
California coastal cities.
1-60. The second front would be an attack by KPA SOF units throughout the South Korean rear  area with
assistance from prepositioned North Korean clandestine operatives. The SOF could reach South Korea by
various means, including helicopter, hovercraft, light plane, parachute, small boat, submarine, or infiltration
tunnel. These personnel could potentially, but not likely, attack U.S. bases in Japan. In addition, North Korea
would focus on asymmetric warfare attacks on perceived areas of U.S. weakness as seen in recent U.S.
overseas operations.
Surprise 
1-61. The KPA will attempt to attack its enemy in  an unexpected place, time, or means. The characteristics
of a surprise attack could include the use of inclement weather, nighttime operations, or rugged terrain; a
detailed deception plan; skilled infiltration units to include SOF units; parachute or air  assault operations;
m
assing of fires; quick concentration of forces at the decisive point and time; or the unexpected employment

organization, equipment, tactics, and techniques. North Korea’s act ions are a continuum in pursuit of
accomplishing desired outcomes. Any pause or apparent pause in operations can be part of a coherent combat
campaign. A long-term perspective guides near -term and mid-term actions to plan and marshal capabilities
for future actions. While one form of action may appear stalled, another form of action is likely underway
against a foe’s vulnerability. This agility and flexibility are critical to how effectively North Korea adapts its

co
mbat with superior forces and focus on alternative methods. These activities may not be linked to maneuver
or ground objectives, but may instead be intended to inflict mass casualties or destroy critical or essential
systems, thus reducing U.S. resolve or ability to continue the fight.
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION 
1-45. North Korea possesses nuclear and chemical weapons, and it is highly likely that the country has also
done research on biological weapons. North Korea sought nuclear weapons because its leaders thought th e
t
hreat of a nuclear attack would prevent other countries from contemplating a regime change.  Estimates for
North Korean nuclear weapons range from 20–60 bombs, with the capability to produce 6 new devices each
year. The Kim family saw that Muammar Gadhaf i gave up his nuclear weapons in 2003 but, without them,
external powers intervened in Libya when the domestic revolts began in 2011. The Kim family does not want
something similar to happen in North Korea.
1-46. North Korea has a longstanding chemical weapons program with the capability to produce nerve,
blister, blood, and choking agents, and likely possesses a large chemical weapons stockpile. It is estimated
that the country possesses 2,500– 5,000 tons of chemical weapons of approximately 20 different types,
making it the third-largest possessor of chemical agents in the world. This includes the highly toxic sarin and
VX chemical agents. It is highly likely that the KPA would use chemical artillery shells. North Korea is no t
a s
ignature to the Chemical Weapons Convention, which is an arms -control treaty that outlaws the
production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons and their precursors.
1-47. North Korea possibly has weaponized anthrax or smallpox that could be mounted on missiles for use
against South Korean, U.S., or Japanese targets in the region. One of the most recent defectors, who was a
KPAGF soldier, had been vaccinated against anthrax.
NORTH KOREAN MILITARY PRINCIPLES 
1-48. North Korea arrived at its current military principles through a disciplined process that incorporated
thorough research of its previous military ideology, its steadfast attitude to complete its national objective,

******************************************************

North Korean Fundamentals 
24 July 2020 ATP 7-100.2 1-27
ACTIONS TO GAIN AND SUSTAIN DOMINANCE 
1-135. North Korean actions will seek to render U.S. combat power ineffective by systematic and continual
attacks on sustainment activities and C2 networks. North Korea will attempt to isolate and contain enemy
maneuver and fires formations, and force U.S. forces  to commit combat power to battles and engagements
that diminish capabilities and prevent U.S. success. North Korea will likely focus on the domains of systems
warfare, isolation, and sanctuary during the enemy’s dominate phase. EIW is relegated to a subordinate role,
while preclusion has an even lesser role, as shown in figure 1-6.
Figure 1-6. Actions to counter enemy dominance 
Employ Targeted Overmatch 
1-136. The destruction of high -visibility or unique systems employed by U.S. forces offers exponential
value in terms of North Korean goals. These actions are not always linked to military objectives; they also
maximize effects in the information and psychological arenas. High-visibility systems that could be identified 
for destruction might include stealth aircr aft, attack helicopters, counterbattery artillery radars, aerial
surveillance platforms, or rocket launcher systems. Losses among these premier systems could undermin e
U
.S. morale, degrade operational capability, and inhibit employment of these weapons sys tems. If North
Korea is able to obtain them, precision munitions can degrade or eliminate high -technology weaponry.
Camouflage, deception, decoy, or mock -up systems can degrade the effects of sensor systems. The North
Koreans can employ low-cost Global Positioning System jammers to disrupt precision munitions targeting,
sensor-to-shooter links, and navigation. Lethal weapon systems such as missiles, air defense systems, sensor
and EW weapons, unmanned aircraft systems, and artillery will all be used to degr ade U.S. capabilities. An
alternate way to operate on the margins of U.S. technology is to maneuver during periods of reduce d
ex
posure, based on detailed study of U.S. capabilities and patterns.
Protect Key Capabilities

enemy assets:
 Command and control facilities.
 Communications facilities and relay stations.
 Aircraft early-warning radar systems.
 Coastal radar systems.
E-13. The KPA will conduct communications jamming against the following enemy targets—
 Fire control facilities.
 Ground-to-air communications links.
 Aircraft request nets.
E-14. The KPA will conduct barrage jamming against specific enemy targets including the following —
 Fire control nets.
 Ground-to-air control links.
 Aircraft request channels.
E-15. Whether the North Korean unit performing the EW mission is at the division level, above it, or below,
the effects on the enemy ground forces will be the same.

Chapter 9 
9-16 ATP 7-100.2 24 July 2020 
9-101. North Korean computer warfare activities may be conducted prior to or during a military action. For
example, by damaging or destroying networks related to an enemy’s projected force deployments and troop
movements, the KPA can effectively disrupt plannin g and misdirect movement, producing substantial
confusion and delays. As modern armies increasingly rely on “just -in-time” logistics support, targeting
logistics-related computers and databases can produce delays in the arrival of important materiel such as
ammunition, fuel, and spare parts during critical phases of a conflict.
9-102. North Korea can successfully conduct invasive computer warfare activities from the safety of its
own territory. It has the distributed ability to reach targeted computers anywhere in the world, as long as they
a
re connected to the Internet. North Korea has the capability to continuously exploit the highly integrated
information systems of an adversary.
9-103. The primary organization responsible for computer warfare in North Korea is Bureau 121, whic
h
f
ielded at least 1,000 elite hackers in 2010 who focused on other countries’ computer systems. This number
is likely much higher now: as of 2009, North Korea’s Mirim College was graduating approximately 100
cyberspace hackers per year for the KPA.
RECONNAISSANCE 
9-104. The KPA considers reconnaissance to be a component of its EIW campaign. At its core,
reconnaissance is a mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods,
information about the activities and resources of an  enemy or adversary, or to secure data concerning th e
m
eteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area (JP 2 -0). See chapter 5 for
details on the KPA use of reconnaissance.
CRYPTANALYSIS 
9-105. Cryptanalysis is the art or process of deciphering coded messages without the key. Most of this work
w
ill be done above the KPA division level or in other offices within the North Korean Government, such as
the Reconnaissance Bureau. The results of cryptanalysis could be used at the tactical level.
INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION

Introduction 
x ATP 7-100.2 24 July 2020 
Chapter 9  describes North Korea’s system to achieve informational and situational understanding 
advantages over an enemy. The country utilizes 11 different components, all of which are used in conjunction 
with combat operations. North Korea conducts electronic intelligence warfare to obtain information on its 
enemies, to deceive them, and to achieve effects against them. While much of this warfare is conducted above 
the tactical level on the battlefield, it affects ground forces at all levels. 
APPENDIXES 
Appendix A describes how North Korean forces provide integrated fires in support of ground maneuver 
forces in tactical missions. 
Appendix B  describes how the KPA  conducts aerial  operations to include homeland defense, close air 
support of its ground forces, and support to special operations forces units. 
Appendix C describes how the KPAGF employ antitank weapons in tactical missions in support of ground 
maneuver forces. 
Appendix D describes how the KPAGF use all-arms air defense to protect its ground maneuver forces. 
Appendix E describes North Korea’s ability to conduct electronic warfare at the tactical level in support of 
tactical missions. 
Appendix F describes the KPAGF’s use of engineers in offensive and defensive tactical missions. 
Appendix G describes KPAGF capabilities to use smoke and other obscurants, and chemical, biological, 
radiological, and nuclear weapons in tactical missions. 
Appendix H  describes how North Korea supplies and sustains its ground maneuver forces in tactical 
missions. 
Appendix I  describes the KPA’s  normal methods of using special operations  forces to support ground 
maneuver force operations. 
UNITS OF MEASURE 
Units of measure in ATP 7-100.2 are metric. The only exceptions to this are large weights, which are in U.S. 
tons (also known as short tons) and are denoted as “tons ,” and volumes, which are shown in gallons. The 
introductory table provides conversion data from one measurement system to an other for units used in this 
publication.